>> Lukas Ruebbelke: The three big things I
want us to walk away with, or rather four.
Is how to spin up a project,
how to build a component, how to hook it
into a template, and then how to abstract
our basic business logic into a service.
And so I dedicate this module to my
friend here, you, this is for you bud.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Service man.
Okay so a service is just a class, and
we understand how classes work.
We've built components,
properties, methods.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so,
this really becomes quite simple.
How do we define a service?
How do we expose a service?
And how do we consume a service?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
defining a service, well, look at this.
This could, if I had not had,
so if this was called items,
and I took off the metadata,
what do we know if this is a component, or
a service,
I mean it would be hard to tell.
>> Speaker 2: If you took off what?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So if I went like
this, let's take off the metadata.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I did this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: At this
point it's just a class,
angular has no way that we
don't know it can be anything.
There's even times where I've had
a component that simply had a collection
on it that I'm consuming in my templates,
I'm like this needs to be a service.
Copy it, paste it, change the name,
change the metadata boom.
And so this is,
again what I think Angular 2 got very,
very right,
is we're letting ES6 do all of the heavy
lifting in terms of organization,
exposing functionality, etcetera.
Like, in classes now for
inheritance that's the devils work,
but for
organizational purposes it's amazing like
classes in modules are great for
organizing stuff.
So that's go back, that is definitely
kind of an interesting thought
is once we take this away, and
it's just a class, what is it?
So the question is are static
classes okay in NG 2?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I don't know if
typescript even has the concept of static
classes, maybe we are getting to the edge
of my classical JavaScript experience.
So if anybody knows that answer
about static classes and JavaScript,
I don't think they actually exist,
typescript may have them, I don't know.
So,
>> Speaker 2: Typescript itself
certainly does not.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah, so
the first person to google that, and
get an answer get a high five from me.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
so defining a service,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: It's here I don't
feel like I don't feel like really CIDER.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: How do we expose
stuff to the application in the module?
So we'll just go down to providers,
add it in.
And.
>> Speaker 2: Does that assume that
there's an import above it there?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes.
So we'll hop into the code and
actually walk through this.
This is and then to consume a service
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Well,
in the constructor of the class,
using constructor assignment.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: But look at this,
you gonna actually have a service that
consumes another service, and
the mechanism is exactly the same.
So again talking about
the patterns like the dependency
injection mechanism just works.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So we're starting
to kinda see some of these patterns.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So there was
a question would you name classes
specifically like CSS has Bem,
and the style guide,
the official one that John Papa did,
the Angular 2 style guide,
they have some specific recommendations.
I generally would do the model that
you're basically talking about,
whatever that is, the mechanism,
so in this case like items.
And then whatever it is like item service,
items component, item list component and
therefore when I look at it or I'm
looking in the code I'm able to find it.
Now some people have some very
different opinions about that for
me personally I feel like code should be
self documenting, and I like to when I
look at something know that this is
a service and this is a component, etc.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay,
wow, demonstration time.
Time flies.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So the temptation
here, it's for me to just go ahead and
solve the challenge that's coming up,
but I don't wanna do that.
So now I need to make one
up off the top of my head.
Let's do a new service.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: New text script file.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's
go users.service.ts
do something
here real
quick.
After this im create a, hold on I got this
wrong
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
I'm creating an interface for user.
So going back to interfaces,
what this does is it defines
what a user object should look like.
So it allows us to actually create typing,
typings for specific objects.
So, again C sharp, this is any classical
language we understand this quite well.
So let's go name,
actually let's go i.d number,
name is string and description.
Pretty standard, okay.
And then what we can do is let's go,
selected
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Again,
thank you Intellisent's.
So we're saying is when we select set,
this selected user,
we expect it, to be, This,
it will look like this.
So we can then, make some inferences.
As, well you can see here, that.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Of how
this is going to, be shape.
So if we go, for inferences.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's see,
if this is gonna make me.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
set's selected user.
And so
now we can say when we set this in here,
like we expect this parameter
to be of type user.
And then we'll go, now you can see here,
because we have those three
properties on the interface,
that probably can we make some inferences
about what this is going to look like,
but the IDE or the IDE as well.
Like this, now.
I think this is cool,
you can also type, collections.
So, what you can do here, is.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: They're saying,
We are printing a user's property,
that is an array, of user's objects.
So then if we go here, we'll go ID one.
And so right now it's already anchoring,
cuz I haven't satisfied the interface.
Name, Marcus, description,
FEM OG, and now it's happy.
But look what happens if for instance,
oops it doesn't match.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So, you go here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'm like the 'FEM,
MINI ME'.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Davis,
I don't know who this is.
Who!?
Okay, so far so good?
We now have, the user service,
we've created interface, and so
now, we've done a pretty good job of,
Of typing these things out, so
we can see, the user interface in action.
But, now how do we expose this
to the rest of our application?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah,
I think you've got it.
>> Speaker 2: Import it, in your module.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes.
Good, so, we can do this two ways.
>> Speaker 3: [CROSSTALK] We need,
a semi colon.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What?
>> Speaker 3: After, selected user.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Did,
I mess something up?
>> Speaker 3: [CROSSTALK] Selected user,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah.
Thank you, so much.
Pair programming, FTW LOL.
So, I'm gonna go ahead, and
I'm gonna just do a barrel roll, so
I'm going to add this to the barrel.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Users, service and.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: we'll go ahead and,
just export this as well.
So we can actually carry this typing,
all the way through.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: the rest,
of the application.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So, let's go ahead
and, let's add this to our at module.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now, again just
following up on the barrel roll,
is I can import this specifically,
with kinda this fully qualified path name.
So, I can go from here,
shared/user service.
And like this would, totally work, and
I could add this,
i could go here, like this.
And then I can add this,
into the providers.
But, once you have four and
five or whatever,
Classes in the share directory,
this starts to get tedious.
And so, this is where, you know this or
this is why this was created,
is that we can just import
this all in one single import,
which is what Angular two is doing in
a lot of places as well where import,
for instance,
component On in it et cetera, okay?
And so now,
that this is available to our application,
how would we consume this?
Let's, take.
Let's go back, to our widgets.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Widgets Component,
Here, well, first things first.
I want a, user's collection,
that is of type User.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so now, I'm
saying, I'm creating collection locally.
So, again, this is just like I was
doing in the service, same pattern.
But now, we need to actually,
inject this in here.
So, let's go down here.
Constructor.
Private.
userService.
And we're not going to do,
anything with this here.
But, what we wanna do is,
let's see if this is gonna give me.
Nope.
So let's go up here, and
implement our, A Init.
Well, now we have to.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So this.userservice,
by using the access modifier
in the constructor.
It's, not a local number.
Let's, actually go,
this.users equals, users.
Rather, so you see even how that even,
It didn't like that.
Okay.
Then, if we go over here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Where do,
I wanna put this?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So, let's just
put this at the top for a second.
So, pre.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Users.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And there we have it.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So, this was
the magical mystery service tour of
how to build a service in Angular 2.
>> Speaker 2: Dale's question.
>> Speaker 2: There's an answer,
and then an opinion.
I just wanna get your opinion on that.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
you can import everything from Shared.
I prefer to be explicit,
as well as you may not want everything.
And so that is, you may have five things
in the barrel roll and you only want two.
So, I prefer to be very
explicit about that.
Another example of this is, exactly.
So, Andy nailed it.
Is by using, really, kind of the dollar,
like input dollar from,
is you're gonna grab everything.
And essentially,
you are grabbing things you may not need.
A really, really good example
of this is Observables.
I love Observables.
They're amazing.
But, you have essentially
the Observable object, and
then you have like 10,000
operators that you can then use.
So, at one point, I think they've
kind of made it harder to do.
But, you could just say it like,
import observable from rxjs.
And the way you did it it would
actually grab everything.
And it was huge and cumbersome.
And what would happen is you would
basically import all of rxjs for
five operators that you needed.
And you didn't need
the other 300 operators.
And so,
the way to do that with Observables is
you import just the Observable and
then you import the operators as you need.
So, I think that really being explicit,
one,
is it is very self-documenting about
what you are trying to accomplish,
but it keeps you from, basically,
importing things that you don't need.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Okay,
this is a different question.
Jonas is asking Lukas,
could you please explain why we
declare services as private?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So, the reason why we
are doing that in the Constructor is so
that TypeScript will essentially assign.
So, this is a TypeScript convention.
It's called a constructor assignment,
where it will essentially take
usersService, and because it's private,
it will assign essentially
this.usersService = usersService,
so that we can use it down here.
So, what this does is it allows you,
when you inject something,
that it becomes then a local member.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Is that a singleton
UserService across the app?
Or, is that new instance for
every injected instance of it?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
this is a very, very good question.
So, the question is, is this
a singleton service across the app?
Or, is it one per instance?
And the answer is neither.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: But,
it's actually somewhere in the middle.
So, it's not a singleton in the sense
that you can only create one.
So, in Angular 1 everything
was a singleton.
You basically had a service factory
that you would say, give me this thing.
And if it already exists
then just return it.
And so, what will happen is, essentially,
whatever's the last thing in, or
rather, I beleive it's the first one,
that's what you would get.
Well, there was this collision because
there was a key value that this key equals
this service, and that was it.
With Angular 2,
every component has an injector.
So, with Angular 1, it was just one
injector for the entire application.
With Angular 2, every component has
an injector, which may be provided,
basically, by its parent or
its parent parent parent.
The point is at the component
level you can manually configure
hierarchical dependency injection.
So, what that means is you can simply say,
for
this component I want this UserService or
this particular version of UserService.
But, down here I want to use
this particular version.
And you can completely override
the injector at the component level.
And so,
this is pretty super advanced stuff.
Pascal Precht gives a pretty good
explanation of this on his blog,
Thoughtram.
But, it's not a singleton because you
can actually have more than one service
depending on how you inject it.
But, at the same time it's not going
to create new one every single time.
Instead, it will essentially,
it'll be a single instance until
you specifically tell it otherwise.
So, the answer is no,
or yes, until it's not.
>> Speaker 2: What was
the reference you gave?
Somebody's blog?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah,
so Pascal Precht.
I think one of the top content creators
around really, Angular 2, is Pascal.
And he's another Angular GDE.
And his blog is,
I think it's blog.thoughtram.io.
And one the most prolific
Angular 2 bloggers.
They have a ton of good articles.
My two favorite ones are really about
hierarchical dependency injection and
change detection.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: In fact, I will even,
in my slides, put together some additional
resources cuz I've realized,
I know Tamara's keeping track of some of
the things, but there's definitely
some pretty good stuff out there.
But, definitely check
out what Pascal's doing.
But, I think hierarchical dependency
injection is kind of one of these
rocket science edge cases that you're
probably doing some pretty advanced stuff.
And it's kind of the equivalent
of when you go to a workshop.
It's like, okay,
if you're on Windows, do this.
If you're on Mac, do this.
If you're on Linux, you're on your own,
cuz you're smart enough to
figure it out yourself.
And so I think, if you're doing
hierarchical dependency injection,
you're probably smart enough to figure
out how to actually make that work.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah, I agree.
So, Chris.
So,
Pascal has a really great
talk on change detection.
And that's super helpful.
Any other questions about services?
Yes?
>> Speaker 4: I have one.
So, basically, if you have
a service in a parent component and
you wanted to get data
into a child component.
So, say, for example, we had a table
of data and you select one row.
And you want that data then to go
down into the child component-
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 4: Is there a best
practices recommendation on whether
you would pass that row of
data from parent to child?
Or would you, in the child,
write code to go back into the service and
just get the individual record?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
I spend an entire module
tomorrow morning talking about this.
But, I will answer that,
without going too far into it.
What I recommend is,
unless you're doing a data mutation.
So, in other words, I wanna select
data I have a list of things.
I want to select it and
then I wanna take that and
I wanna pass it into like a child
component to be rendered.
So how I would structure that and
how I have actually structured it,
because the scenario which you have
described is this, right here.
So at a high-level,
what you have is container components and
presentational components.
So prior to this before the PC
police got a hold of it,
it was really smart and
dumb components that you have
a container component
that is responsible for
fetching data to satisfy the component.
It then takes that data and
splits it up into tiny pieces as needed,
and then feeds that into
its children components.
And tomorrow when we get into inputs and
outputs, what happens is you have
a component that's for
the most part, completely stateless.
In other words, you pass it in data.
It renders it.
When something does something, it captures
that event instead of handling it in that
component, it basically emits it backup
to the parent component to be handled.
So here, when I select this item,
what's happening is this item
list is completely done.
It's basically getting a list of items and
it's saying, render this.
And then when I select this item,
it's capturing that click event and
emitting it backup to
the main items component.
And say like, hey,
this thing was selected.
And so then what the items component does
is say, we have a new selected item.
Let's pass it into here.
And so now, this item details
component is now bound to that.
And I suppose, let me just show you what
this looks like, because I love talking
about component driven architecture,
but the caveat is I think it's hard to
talk about component driven architecture
before you talk about components.
So, you have to understand how a component
works before we can talk about how to put
them together.
With that said,
I will show you Kind of a high-level,
so you can start thinking about this.
So you can see here, what do we have?
Property binding.
What are passing in?
An items collection.
So within the child component,
it's just saying,
I've got his collection NG four
like let's loop it, let's go.
And then here, when you select
an item in the child component,
it's basically admitting this
back up on a selected event.
You say, wait a second, selected?
That's not a DOM event,
you guys made that up.
Well, maybe this.
I'll think it is.
Feature's definitely not, but what we're
doing is we're now admitting custom events
with custom data that we are handling
in this top of a little component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
items, selected item.
Well, this is actually to look vaguely
familiar with kind of what we're doing to
widgets.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so
we have some interesting things here,
because of the router and
some kind of functionality, but
what we're doing is here, selected item.
Now if we go back here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Actually,
let's go to selectItem right here.
When this selected event gets fired, well,
it's calling this method and
passing it here.
So, the list is emitting a selected item.
And so basically,
this is just an extension of what
we did in the previous exercise.
And then so notice now, item.
So, the details were binding
item to selected item.
So the minute this is selected over here,
it's omitting the selected item.
And so it's saying, here's the selected
item, do what you want with it.
And this becomes even more important
like for deleted, because I wanna remove
myself, but you wanna allow an item
to remove itself from a collection.
You want to actually defer
that up to the parent.
So it's saying like hey,
like this item selected to mark for
deletion like here's this information.
And then the parent component or
the container component say, okay,
I know what to do here.
I'll take this item and
then I'll actually pass it on to the item
service to be deleted from the actual
server, but selected items.
Once it's selected, we're basically
sending that up via the event and
we're setting it which
then now sets it here.
And if we make some change and
we click Save.
Well, it's saying, okay,
save this item and
here's the new item or
basically here's the new value.
So we'll talk more about this tomorrow,
but that's the pattern.
So container component,
presentational or DOM components.
We just stack them in all day long.
Yes?
>> Speaker 5: Thomas has a question, you
may have touched on it and I missed it,
but when do you use
the injectable on service?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Always.
So you can get away with it sometimes,
but the minute you
are service has a dependencies that
being injected in, then this will break.
So you basically have to have correct
metadata generated for things,
components, services, whatever for
Angular to know what to do with it.
And so really, the best practice rule of
thumb is anytime you create a service,
just annotate it with injectable.
You'll never regret it.
If you don't, you may regret it.
So I think in this case, injectable is
kind of like the semicolon of JavaScript.
It's like you are never gonna
regret using the semicolon, but
there's times where you will not and
it will blow up in your face.
So, that's why I do it.
>> Speaker 5: Next question from Richard,
how do you do component
binding across router outlet?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Component
binding across router outlet.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So, I'm trying
to think what that means generally.
So going back to the container component,
presentational component.
I treat really like
router outlet is being,
like a fine-grained slot for your feature.
And so, I would not try to do binding
on the router outlet directive or
rather component is I think
that would be precarious.
I think you only want to pass in fully
formed components into the router outlet.
And so, I've never actually even heard of
any kind of like component binding done on
the router outlet.
Well, not only that,
you don't actually have access to
the internals of the router outlet.
So, I'm not sure how much
mileage you would actually get.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: But
if somebody knows of a good use case,
that sounds like some mad scientist,
rather I can.
I probably shouldn't, but
I'm going to kind of scenario there.